A newspaper in Japan, once quoted a Catholic priest, he said the God of the Old Testament,
Yahweh, is a God of anger and I can't feel close to him.
And then he added, but he developed and transformed into what is the God of the New Testament,
that is the God of love whom Jesus taught.
Have you ever heard that?
A lot of people still think like this as if God has a split personality.
They're uncomfortable when they read in the Bible that God gets angry sometimes.
Why is that?
Well, it may be for one of two reasons.
First, there are outspoken critics in this world who constantly try to discredit Jehovah,
a prominent biologist for example made headlines a few years ago.
He said in his book, the God of the Old Testament is arguably the most unpleasant character in
all fiction.
I stop the quote there because it gets much worse, but how blasphemous a viewpoint that is,
the more often people hear statements like this, the more they tend to believe them.
There's a second reason though, by some struggle with God's anger,
they have suffered an abusive relationship and now they're sensitive to any perceived abuse.
Take Carolyn, for example, she said when my drunken father used to explode in anger,
his appearance changed. He became like a wolf bearing its teeth before attacking.
She says, I live this nightmare every day.
Well, abuse like this can scar people for a long time.
So how can we help sincere persons get past their fears about God's anger and draw closer to
Jehovah? Well, let's address the critics first and then see how we can reassure those who may
be feeling insecure. First, let's make one thing clear, Jehovah does not have multiple personalities.
When Jesus was on earth, he advocated the powerful truth that Jehovah is one.
When a Jewish scribe asked him, what was the greatest of all commandments? What did he say?
Well, let's read Mark 12, 29 and 30 and see what his reply was in his own words.
He answered by quoting today's text, Mark 12, 29 and 30.
Jesus answered, the first is, here, O Israel, Jehovah are God is one Jehovah and you must love Jehovah
your God with your whole heart, with your whole soul, with your whole mind and with your whole strength.
So for Jesus, loving Jehovah for who he is, not for who we want him to be,
is really the most important decision any of us could make.
Now, the pagan nations had all sorts of gods for different purposes and they would worship
different aspects of even the same God in different localities like the God Bale, for example.
And something similar happened in other religions, say, for example, the Catholic Church with
its different manifestations of the worship of Mary. But things were very different in Israel.
They learned that there was only one God, Jehovah, who was responsible for everything.
At each time they read Deuteronomy 6 and verse 4, they were reminded that God had one personality.
So why does a God of love get angry sometimes? Well, the answer is quite simple.
When Rebels challenged Jehovah's sovereignty, he had to defend his name and standards.
Rebellion did make him angry and rightly so.
But Jehovah's anger is always under control and guided by right principles.
As a father, he had to protect his household, respect for his own name and his love for his children
compelled him to act. At the same time, Jehovah is slow to anger and abundant in loving kindness.
His fundamental mood is not anger, but joy.
And Jesus said that God loved the world so much he gave his only begotten son.
Jehovah has been is and always will be a God of unchangeable love.
First John 4 and it says, God is love. It identifies who he is.
But Jesus also said that God gave his son in order that everyone exercising faith in him
might not be destroyed but have everlasting life. Did you notice that Jesus said those not exercising
faith will be destroyed? So Jehovah's personality didn't mellow over the years
as if it needed mellowing. It didn't transform from one personality to another.
His severity today against the wicked is no less nor his love any greater than it was in the past.
Jehovah does not change. We can illustrate it like this perhaps.
Criminals may know that a police officer is an arm of the law.
His children may see him as a loving father that he is and his close friends may value him for
his good sense of humor. Now the police officer, the father and the friend are all the same person.
In each situation a different aspect of his personality stands out and it's the same with Jehovah.
In harmony with his name, he causes to become or becomes whatever he needs to in every situation
in order to fulfill his purpose, especially his purpose towards those who love him.
So if we want to get closer to Jehovah, we have to accept the full range of his beautiful,
multifaceted and unchanging personality. For those who love God, we don't fear his anger.
We learn to trust him because he's always kind and tender towards us.
Why can we say that? Well, open your Bibles with me to Jeremiah 29 and verse 11.
And notice why we can be sure that Jehovah always wants the best for us,
as he did for his servants in the past and his own words.
For I well know the thoughts that I am thinking toward you declares Jehovah,
thoughts of peace and not of calamity to give you a future and a hope.
Because Jehovah loves us, because he's always in full control of himself and circumstances around him.
And because Jesus has already died for our sins, we can always feel safe with Jehovah.
We do not ever need to fear approaching him.
Very soon now, as Zechariah 14 and verse 9 predicts,
Jehovah must become king over all the earth.
And in that day, the prophet said, Jehovah will prove to be one and his name one.
Everyone in heaven and on earth will agree at that time that Jehovah our God is the universal sovereign.
And you and I will gladly join our voices with that happy chorus.
What a beautiful prospect that is.